# Launchpad Technical Challenge (Backend)
## Assumptions
* Set menu consists of only:
    * Cheese Pizza
    * Pepperoni Pizza
    * Margherita Pizza

## Solution Outline
A user should only be able to make/view orders in their own account.
Hence a login system is required beforehand so that the system can check if the user is verified to be logged in before making/viewing the orders that are linked to their account. 

### Backend API (HTTP)
* POST request with endpoint '/orders' - Take order
    **Description**
    NOTE: Order Schema available for reference
    * POST request body contains the current user, 
    quantities for each pizza type (Cheese, Pepperoni, Margherita),
    the payment method. 
    * We will first check if the current user is logged in/verified.
    * We will then check if the quantities given are positive.
    * If the numbers are negative, we send back an error saying that 
    only positive numbers are accepted. 
    * Lastly, we will check if there is a payment method. 
    * If there is no payment method, it means that the user has not paid 
    and we send back an error saying that payment is required. 
    * After verifications, we will create an orderID using the UUID library.
    * We will calculate the total bill amount by taking the 
    item quantity * item price which we have as an enum on the backend.
    * We will not have any input for orderStatus and orderDate to keep them as default.
    * We will create an Order with the orderID, individual quantities, 
    total bill amount, and payment method. 
    * We will save the Order under the user's account.
    (Hence the orders, array of order, field in accountSchema).
    * Send back a message saying that Order has been successfully made.  

* GET request with endpoint '/orders/:id' - Track order status of specified order
    **Description**
    * GET request parameter should contain an ID (String) 
    which is the orderID in the Order Schema. 
    * If there is no ID in the parameter, send back an error that there is no ID.
    * Else, use the ID to find the corresponding Order with the matching orderID.
    * Retrieve the orderStatus of the Order.
    * Send back the orderStatus of the Order. 

* GET request with endpoint '/orders/:date' - Get a receipt of an order for up to one year (Assuming that a script will be run daily to remove any Order that has been in the database for over one year)
    **Description**
    * GET request parameter (date) is a dateString (String).
    * If there is no dateString in the parameter, send back an error that there is no dateString.
    * Convert the dateString to a Date (Date type).
    * Check if the Date is more than one year past the date today.
    * If the Date is more than one year past the date today, send back an error that the orderDate requested is beyond one year. 
    * Use the Date to find the corresponding Order with the matching orderDate.
    * Retrieve the Order.
    * Send back the Order. 
    * NOTE: there may be multiple orders that have the same orderDates. Hence we will run a for loop and put the orders with the matching OrderDate into an Array, and return the Order Array. 

* POST request with endpoint '/accounts/login' - For user to login
* POST request with endpoint '/accounts/signup' - For user to sign up for an account

### Model
* Order Model:
    * (String) orderID 
        * value cannot be set by the API and is only randomly generated when API endpoint is called
        * value is generated by UUID library
        * required since it is the identifier of the order
    * (Number) cheesePizzaQuantity
    * (Number) pepperoniPizzaQuantity
    * (Number) margheritaPizzaQuantity
    * (Number) totalAmount
        * value is calculated on the backend
        * required since it is required in a receipt
    * (String) paymentMethod
        * required since user has to pay first before order is made
    * (String) orderStatus 
        * value cannot be set by the API and is set to 'Order Received' by default
        * value can only be changed by the backend services during the Pizza making process
    * (Date) orderDate 
        * value cannot be set by the API and is set to the date when the order is made by default
        * required since it is an needed for order lookup

* Account Model
    * (String) accountEmail
    * (String) accountPasword
    * (Array of Order) orders

## Considerations
* Pizza customizations
* Menu expansion
* Cash payment during collection instead of online payment
* Order cancellation after order is made

## Potential Technical Improvements
* Some unit tests for each class to test the functions
* Exceptions
    * Exception thrown when there are selections to see receipt for orders beyond 1 year
    * Exception thrown when there are no pizza quantities in the order
* Construct a Status enum (reduce typo errors and easier change of values) with the following options:
    * OrderReceived
    * ToppingsAdded
    * PizzaBaking
    * PizzaReady
* Implement async/await in the API implementations to increase system efficiency when accessing the database
* Replace the callbacks in the router with methods in a Controller class for greater modularity
* Replace the login process with 'Passport.js'/'Firebase Auth' for more secure user authentication
* Use the 'bcrypt' library to hash and salt the password for better security
* Implement the script to remove orders that are over 1 year
